Update RUM sampling guide to account for RWOL (#29720)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/guide/best-practices-for-rum-sampling.md

Sampling in Datadog's Real User Monitoring product enables you to collect data from a certain percentage of user traffic.

There are two different ways of sampling, which control the data you send to Datadog:

- **Client-side (head-based) sampling**: Makes the sampling decision at the beginning of a user session, before any data is collected. The RUM SDK in your application determines whether to track the entire session or not, reducing data collection and ingestion of sessions that aren't analyzed.

> - **Server-side (tail-based) sampling**: Makes the sampling decision after data has been collected and sent to Datadog. It allows you to filter and retain specific sessions based on their characteristics (like errors or user attributes) using retention filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Server-side (tail-based) sampling**: Makes the sampling decision after data has been collected and sent to Datadog. It allows you to filter and retain specific sessions based on their characteristics (like errors or user attributes) using retention filters.

_**Note**: Server-side sampling is only possible with the [retention filters][12] provided by [RUM without Limits][2]. If you need to use this but are on the legacy, client-side-only model, reach out to your account team._
```

This guide walks you through best practices for RUM sampling so you can capture sessions and collect data based on your monitoring needs. Learn more about how [sessions are defined][1] in RUM.

## Sampling configuration

### Configure the sampling rate

#### Client-side (head-based) sampling rate

> With [RUM without Limits][2], client-side sampling rate helps you control the ingested portion of your session or how many sessions you send from your applications to Datadog.

Reviewer: I would drop "the ingested portion of your session" as it feels like customer can sample events within a Session

```suggestion
With [RUM without Limits][2], client-side sampling rate helps you control how many sessions you send from your applications to Datadog.
```

Before each new user session, the SDK draws a random floating-point number between 0 and 100, which is then compared to the value set in the SDK configuration. If the random number is lower than the value set in the SDK configuration, the session is kept and events start being collected. If the random number is higher, the session is not kept and events are not collected until the end of the session.

You can set the sampling rate with the SDK ([Browser][3], [Android][4], [iOS][5], [Flutter][6], [Kotlin Multiplatform][7], [React Native][8], [Roku][9], [Unity][10]), then deploy it in the application code.

#### Server-side (tail-based) sampling rate

> With RUM without Limits, server-side sampling rate defines which sessions you want to keep in Datadog for a particular [retention period][11].

Reviewer: We don't want to imply that retention period can be customized as this is no longer available since the launch of Product Analytics

```suggestion
With RUM without Limits, server-side sampling rate defines which sessions you want to keep in Datadog (see details about the [retention period][11]).
```

> The server-side sampling rate is defined as part of the retention filters for your sessions. When a retention filter matches a session or matches one of the events making up the sessions (view/action/error/resource, and so on), the whole session is stored. The retention rate allows you to store only a specific percentage of sessions that meet the filter criteria and discard the rest. Learn more about [how retention filters work][12].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server-side sampling rate is defined as part of the retention filters for your sessions. When a retention filter matches a session or matches one of the events making up the sessions (view/action/error/resource, and so on), the whole session is stored alongside all its events (and including the ones that proceeded the sampling decision). The retention rate allows you to store only a specific percentage of sessions that meet the filter criteria and discard the rest. Learn more about [how retention filters work][12].
```

### The effect of sampling on data and metrics that are available in RUM

> RUM metrics (such as Core Web Vitals and usage numbers) are calculated based on sessions that are sampled. For example, if the sampling rate is set to capture 60% of sessions, then the Core Web Vitals and total number of sessions are calculated based on 60% of those sessions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUM metrics, including the ones that come [out-of-the-box with RUM without Limits][13] (e.g. Core Web Vitals and usage numbers) and the [custom ones][16] that you can create yourself, are all calculated based on sessions that are ingested on Datadog. For example, if the client-sampling rate is set to capture 60% of sessions, then the Core Web Vitals and total number of sessions are calculated based on 60% of those sessions.

_**Note**: with RUM without Limits, those metrics are computed before the [retention filters][12], i.e. before server-side sampling_
```

### Sampling based on specific attributes
Configuring sampling based on specific attributes, such as sampling 100% of sessions with errors and 5% otherwise, or only sampling sessions that go through the checkout flow, is supported using [retention filters][12]. See the [Retention Filters Best Practices][14] guide to understand common retention filter types.

### Changing the sampling rate in the Datadog RUM UI
You can change the sampling rate is only supported for server-side sampling and can be accomplished by [modifying the retention rate][15] from the retention filters page.

During live outages, if a bug or incident occurs, you can increase sampling to collect 100% of your sessions to ensure nothing is missed, or you have more examples of a particular issue.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/guide/understanding-the-rum-event-hierarchy/#sessions
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/
[3]: /real_user_monitoring/guide/sampling-browser-plans/#overview
[4]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#initialization-parameters

> [5]: /real_user_monitoring/ios/advanced_configuration/?tab=swift#sample-rum-sessions

Author: i updated to the correct link. thanks for catching this!

[6]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/flutter/setup/advanced_configuration/#sample-rum-sessions
[7]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/kotlin_multiplatform/setup/?tab=rum#sample-rum-sessions
[8]: /real_user_monitoring/reactnative/#initialize-the-library-with-application-context

> [9]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/roku/setup/#initialize-the-library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[9]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/roku/setup/#step-3---initialize-the-library
```

[10]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/unity/setup#sample-rum-sessions
[11]: /data_security/data_retention_periods/
[12]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters
[13]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/metrics

> [14]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters#best-practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[14]: /real_user_monitoring/guide/retention_filter_best_practices/
```

Reviewer 2: This link leads to section that only links out to another page, so suggesting this update to reduce the number of links a user has to click

> [15]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters#modifying-filters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[15]: /real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters#modifying-filters
[16]: /real_user_monitoring/platform/generate_metrics
```
